.\" mpi-start man page
.TH mpi-start 1 "September 2011" "EMI" "mpi-start"
.SH NAME
mpi-start \- start mpi applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
mpi-start [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIAPPLICATION [\fIAPPLICATIONARGS\fR]\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A generic startup mechanism for different MPI installation in a cluster/grid. mpi-start options may be also specified as environment variables.
.\" General options
.SS GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
show online help.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
show mpi-start version.
.TP
\fB\-t \fITYPE\fB\fR
use the mpi \fITYPE\fR for execution the application (sets I2G_MPI_TYPE).
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Be verbose.
.TP
\fB\-vv\fR
Include debug information.
.TP
\fB\-vvv\fR
Full trace of mpi-start execution.
.TP
\fB\-pre \fIPRE-HOOK\fB\fR
Use the specified \fIPRE-HOOK\fR file as pre run hook script.
.TP
\fB\-post \fIPOST-HOOK\fB\fR
Use the specified \fIPOST-HOOK\fR file as post run hook script.
.TP
\fB\-pcmd \fICMD\fB\fR
Use the specified \fICMD\fR as pre command.
.TP
\fB\-i \fIFILE\fB\fR
Use the specified \fIFILE\fR as application standard input.
.TP
\fB\-o \fIFILE\fB\fR
Use the specified \fIFILE\fR as application standard output.
.TP
\fB\-e \fIFILE\fB\fR
Use the specified \fIFILE\fR as application standard error.
.TP
\fB\-c \fICONFIGFILE\fB\fR
Use \fICONFIGFILE\fR with configuration variables for mpi-start.
.TP
\fB\-x \fIVAR[=VALUE]\fB\fR
Export the \fIVAR\fR into the application environment. Optionally set its \fIVALUE\fR.
.TP
\fB\-d \fIVAR=VALUE\fB\fR
Define mpi-start variable \fIVAR\fR with the specified \fIVALUE\fR.
.SS PROCESS OPTIONS 
.PP
All of this options are exclusive between them (e.g. it cannot be specified for the same execution a number of processes per node and a number of processes per core). If more than one is specified in the command line, mpi-start will consider the following order: proceses per node, processes per socket, processes per core, total number of processes.
.PP 
Per core and per socket options assume all hosts involved in the execution have the same CPU layout and that all of the CPUs are allocated for the current execution.
.TP
\fB\-npnode \fIN\fB\fR
Start \fIN\fR processes at each node.
.TP
\fB\-npsocket \fIN\fB\fR
Start \fIN\fR processes at each CPU socket.
.TP
\fB\-npcore \fIN\fB\fR
Start \fIN\fR processes at each core.
.TP
\fB\-np \fIN\fB\fR
Start \fIN\fR processes.
.TP
\fB\-pnode\fR
Start only one process per node (equivalent to -npnode 1).
.TP
\fB\-psocket\fR
Start only one process per CPU socket (equivalent to -npsocket 1).
.TP
\fB\-pcore\fR
Start only one process per core (equivalent to -npcore 1).
.\" --             separator for application and arguments
.SH FILES
.PP
All the mpi-start modules are located in /etc/mpi-start. They can be distinguished by their suffix.
.nf
\fI*.mpi\fR for execution environment plugins. 
\fI*.scheduler\fR for scheduler plugins. 
\fI*.hook\fR for local hooks. 
\fI*.filedist\fR for file distribution methods. 
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
mpi-start documentation: \fBhttp://grid.ifca.es/wiki/Middleware/MpiStart\fR
mpi-start trac: \fBhttp://devel.ifca.es/trac/mpi-start/\fR
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
mpi-start team \- <http://devel.ifca.es/mpi-start>

